Hi friends
In this video we are going to learn
the printf function in C programming
So why do we need this printf function? It's just
that when the program needs to communicate with the user
Like if the program wants to take some data from
the user or give some data or some information to the
user
In such cases we need to display data on the
screen
And for that we need a function
And that is printf now see the syntax of printf
function here
So right printf and inside parenthesis inside double quotes
you write whatever data you want to print and never
forget to add a semicolon at the end and what
you have inside this double quotes, it will be printed
on the screen
Now this printf is a function from the header
file stdio.h
So it is important that you include stdio.h
header file in your  programme
If you're going to use the printf function. Now let's
see an example programme
So we are going to print "welcome to the C
programming" using printf function
And so we must include stdio.h
header file first and in main function we have
the printf statement and inside double quotes
We have "welcome to the C programming"
and end it with the semi colon
So when the programme executes it will print whatever is
inside the double quotes
And here it will be welcome to the C programming
And now let us discuss about the return value of
printf function
So printf function will be returning the character count
So see this example here and we have 1 2 3 4 5 characters
here so 5 will be the return value of this
particular printf function and see another example
And here we have 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 and 11 11 characters
we have and that will be the return value
And remember white space is always considered as an individual
character so that will also be counted
So here the return value will be 11 and not 10
So that's all and thank you for watching this video.